---
edit_link: ''
title: Configuring AGL CMake Templates
origin_url: >-
  https://git.automotivelinux.org/src/cmake-apps-module/plain/docs/dev_guide/configuring-cmake.md?h=master
---

<!-- WARNING: This file is generated by fetch_docs.js using /home/boron/Documents/AGL/docs-webtemplate/site/_data/tocs/devguides/master/cmake-apps-module-guides-devguides-book.yml -->

# Configuring AGL CMake Templates

Configuration consists of editing the `config.cmake` file for your
specific project.

## Creating Your `config.cmake` File

First, you need to create a `confd/cmake` file in your CMake project
directory.

```bash
mkdir -p conf.d/cmake
```

Next, use one of the following commands to copy a `cmake.sample` file to
your `config.cmake` file.
The first command applies if you have the SDK installed, while the
second command applies if you installed the modules on your native Linux system.

**NOTE:** The `OECORE_NATIVE_SYSROOT` variable is defined once you have
a project folder, the AGL SDK source files, and the CMake modules installed.

```bash
mkdir -p conf.d/cmake
# From the SDK sysroot >= RC2 of the 7.0.0 Guppy release
cp ${OECORE_NATIVE_SYSROOT}/usr/share/doc/CMakeAfbTemplates/samples.d/config.cmake.sample conf.d/cmake/config.cmake
# From a native installation
cp /usr/share/doc/CMakeAfbTemplates/samples.d/config.cmake.sample conf.d/cmake/config.cmake
```

Once you have created your `config.cmake` file, you need to make the changes
specific to your project.

## Creating Your `CMakeLists.txt` File

To create this file, use the example in the **cmake module**.
Use one of the following two commands to create your file.
The first command applies if you have the SDK installed, while the
second command applies if you installed the modules on your native Linux system.

**NOTE:** The `OECORE_NATIVE_SYSROOT` variable is defined once you have
a project folder, the AGL SDK source files, and the CMake modules installed.

```bash
# From the SDK sysroot >= RC2 of the 7.0.0 Guppy release
cp ${OECORE_NATIVE_SYSROOT}/usr/share/doc/CMakeAfbTemplates/samples.d/CMakeLists.txt.sample CMakeLists.txt
# From a native installation
cp /usr/share/doc/CMakeAfbTemplates/samples.d/CMakeLists.txt.sample CMakeLists.txt
```

## Creating Your CMake Targets

Creating a CMake target is the result of editing your `CMakeLists.txt` file.

For each target that is part of your project, you need to use the
***PROJECT_TARGET_ADD*** statement.
Using this statement includes the target in your project.

Using the ***PROJECT_TARGET_ADD*** statement makes the CMake ***TARGET_NAME***
variable available until the next ***PROJECT_TARGET_ADD*** statement is
encountered that uses a new target name.

Following is typical use within the `CMakeLists.txt` file to create a target:

```cmake
PROJECT_TARGET_ADD(target_name) --> Adds *target_name* to the project.
*target_name* is a sub-folder in the CMake project.

add_executable/add_library(${TARGET_NAME}.... --> Defines the target sources.

SET_TARGET_PROPERTIES(${TARGET_NAME} PROPERTIES.... --> Configures the target properties
so they can be used by macros.

INSTALL(TARGETS ${TARGET_NAME}....
```

## Target Properties

Target properties are used to determine the nature of the
target and where the target is stored within the package being built.

Use the **LABELS** property to specify the target type that you want
included in the widget package.
You can choose the following target types:

Choose between:

- **BINDING**: A shared library loaded by the AGL Application Framework.
- **BINDINGV2**: A shared library loaded by the AGL Application Framework.
  This library must be accompanied by a JSON file named similar to the
  *${OUTPUT_NAME}-apidef* of the target, which describes the API with OpenAPI
  syntax (e.g: *mybinding-apidef*).
  Alternatively, you can choose the name without the extension using the
  **set_openapi_filename** macro.
  If you use C++, you must set **PROJECT_LANGUAGES** through *CXX*.
- **BINDINGV3**: A shared library loaded by the AGL Application Framework.
  This library must be accompanied by a JSON file named similar to the
  *${OUTPUT_NAME}-apidef* of the target, which describes the API with OpenAPI
  syntax (e.g: *mybinding-apidef*).
  Alternatively, you can choose the name without the extension using the
  **set_openapi_filename** macro.
  If you use C++, you must set **PROJECT_LANGUAGES** through *CXX*.
- **PLUGIN**: A shared library meant to be used as a binding plugin, which
  would load the library as a plugin consequently extending its
  functionalities.
  You should name the binding using a special extension that you choose
  with `SUFFIX cmake target property`.
  If you do not use the special extension, it defaults to **.ctlso**.
- **HTDOCS**: The root directory of a web application.
  This target has to build its directory and puts its files in the
  **${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/${TARGET_NAME}**.
- **DATA**: Resources used by your application.
  This target has to build its directory and puts its files in the
  **${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/${TARGET_NAME}**.
- **EXECUTABLE**: The entry point of your application executed by the AGL
  Application Framework.
- **LIBRARY**: An external third-party library bundled with the binding.
  The library is bundled in this manner because the platform does not
  provide bundling.
- **BINDING-CONFIG**: Any files used as configuration by your binding.

**TIP:** you should use the prefix _afb-_ (**Application Framework Binding**)
with your *BINDING* targets.

Following is an example that uses the **BINDINGV3** property:

```cmake
SET_TARGET_PROPERTIES(${TARGET_NAME} PROPERTIES
	PREFIX "afb-"
	LABELS "BINDINGV3"
	OUTPUT_NAME "file_output_name")
```

**CAUTION**: You do not need to specify an **INSTALL** command for these
targets.
Installation is performed by the template.
Targets are installed in the **${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/${PROJECT_NAME}**
directory.
